---
 layout: post
 title: KUBERNETES...
 date: 2024-7-8
---
**2024-7-8 AS A LINUX ADMIN**

On day eight feeling was good as always i have learned about the kubernetes
and use case of k8s and what exactly it is...

**1. What is Kubernetes?**

Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration tool or system that is used to automate tasks such as the
management, monitoring, scaling, and deployment of containerized applications. It is used to easily manage 
several containers (since it can handle grouping of containers), which provides for logical units that can be 
discovered and managed.

**2. What are K8s?**

K8s is another term for Kubernetes. 

**3. What is orchestration when it comes to software and DevOps?**

Orchestration refers to the integration of multiple services that allows them to automate processes or 
synchronize information in a timely fashion. Say, for example, you have six or seven microservices for an 
application to run. If you place them in separate containers, this would inevitably create obstacles for 
communication. Orchestration would help in such a situation by enabling all services in individual containers 
to work seamlessly to accomplish a single goal.

**4. How are Kubernetes and Docker related?**

Docker is an open-source platform used to handle software development. Its main benefit is that it packages the settings and dependencies that the software/application needs to run into a container, which allows for 
portability and several other advantages. Kubernetes allows for the manual linking and orchestration of 
several containers, running on multiple hosts that have been created using Docker. . Docker is an open-source 
platform used to handle software development. Its main benefit is that it packages the settings and dependenciesthat the software/application needs to run into a container, which allows for portability and several other 
advantages. Kubernetes allows for the manual linking and orchestration of several containers, running on 
multiple hosts that have been created using Docker.

**5. What are the main differences between the Docker Swarm and Kubernetes?**

Docker Swarm is Docker’s native, open-source container orchestration platform that is used to cluster and 
schedule Docker containers. Swarm differs from Kubernetes in the following ways:

Docker Swarm is more convenient to set up but doesn’t have a robust cluster, while Kubernetes is more 
complicated to set up but the benefit of having the assurance of a robust cluster

Docker Swarm can’t do auto-scaling (as can Kubernetes); however, Docker scaling is five times faster than 
Kubernetes 

Docker Swarm doesn’t have a GUI; Kubernetes has a GUI in the form of a dashboard 

Docker Swarm does automatic load balancing of traffic between containers in a cluster, while Kubernetes 
requires manual intervention for load balancing such traffic  

Docker requires third-party tools like ELK stack for logging and monitoring, while Kubernetes has integrated tools for the same 

Docker Swarm can share storage volumes with any container easily, while Kubernetes can only share storage 
volumes with containers in the same pod

Docker can deploy rolling updates but can’t deploy automatic rollbacks; Kubernetes can deploy rolling updates as well as automatic rollbacks

**7. What are the features of Kubernetes?**

Kubernetes places control for the user where the server will host the container. It will control how to launch. So, Kubernetes automates various manual processes. 

Kubernetes manages various clusters at the same time. 

It provides various additional services like management of containers, security, networking, and storage. 

Kubernetes self-monitors the health of nodes and containers. 
With Kubernetes, users can scale resources not only vertically but also horizontally that too easily and quickly

**8. What are the main components of Kubernetes architecture?**

There are two primary components of Kubernetes Architecture: the master node and the worker node. Each of these components has individual components in them.

Cluster

A collection of servers that combines available resources 
Includes RAM, CPU, disk, and devices

Master

A collection of components that make up the control panel of Kubernetes
Consists of both scheduling and cluster events

Node

A single host capable of running on a virtual machine
Runs both Kube-proxy and Kubelet, which are a part of the cluster

**Need for Containers**

With the ever-expanding presence of technology in our lives, downtime on the internet is becoming unacceptable. Hence, developers need to find solutions to maintain and update the infrastructure of the applications we depend on without interrupting other services people depend on. 

The solution is container deployment. Containers work in isolated environments, making it easy for developers to build and deploy apps

**Hardware Components**

**Nodes**

A node is a worker machine on Kubernetes. It is a Virtual Machine or a physical machine based on the cluster. 
The master maintains the code, and each node contains the necessary components required to run the Kubernetes 
cluster. 

In Kubernetes, there are two types of nodes, Master Node and Slave Node.

Cluster

Kubernetes does not work with individual nodes; it works with the cluster as a whole. Kubernetes clusters make 
up the master and slave node and manage it as a whole. There can be more than one cluster in Kubernetes.

**Software Components**

**Containers**

Containers are used everywhere, as they create self-contained environments where applications are executed. 
The programs are bundled up into single files (known as containers) and then shared on the internet. Multiple 
programs can be added to a single container; be sure to limit one process per container. Programs run on the 
Linux package as containers.

**Pods**

A Kubernetes pod is a group of containers deployed together on the same host. Pods operate one level higher 
than individual containers, and these groups of containers work together to operate for a single process. Pods 
provide two different types of shared resources: networking and storage, and are the units of replication in 
Kubernetes.

**Deployment**

A deployment is a set of identical pods. It runs multiple replicas of the application, and if in case an 
instance fails, deployment replaces those instances. Pods cannot be launched on a cluster directly; instead, 
they are managed by one more layer of abstraction. The manual management of pods is eradicated when deployment 
is used.

**Ingress**

Ingress is a collection of routing rules that decide how the external services access the services running 
inside a Kubernetes cluster. Ingress provides load balancing, SSL termination, and name-based virtual hosting.

**Kubernetes Architecture**

Kubernetes has two nodes—Master Node and Server Node.

**Master**

The master node is the most vital component of Kubernetes architecture. It is the entry point of all 
administrative tasks. There is always one node to check for fault tolerance.
The master node has various components, such as:  

**ETCD**
**Controller Manager**
**Scheduler**
**API Server**
**Kubectl**

**1. ETCD**

This component stores the configuration details and essential values
It communicates with all other components to receive the commands to perform an action.
Manages network rules and post-forwarding activity

**2. Controller Manager**

A daemon (server) that runs in a continuous loop and is responsible for gathering information and sending it to the API Server
Works to get the shared set of clusters and change them to the desired state of the server 
The key controllers are the replication controllers, endpoint controller, namespace controllers, and service 
account controllers
The controller manager runs controllers to administer nodes and endpoints

**3. Scheduler**

The scheduler assigns the tasks to the slave nodes
It is responsible for distributing the workload and stores resource usage information on every node
Tracks how the working load is used on clusters and places the workload on available resources.

**4. API Server**

Kubernetes uses the API server to perform all operations on the cluster
It is a central management entity that receives all REST requests for modifications, serving as a frontend to 
the cluster Implements an interface, which enables different tools and libraries to communicate effectively

**5. Kubectl**

Kubectl controls the Kubernetes cluster manager
        Syntax - kubectl [flags]

Slave
The slave node has the following components:

**1. Pod**

A pod is one or more containers controlled as a single application
It encapsulates application containers, storage resources, and is tagged by a unique network ID and other 
configurations that regulate the operation of containers

**2. Docker**

One of the basic requirements of nodes is Docker
It helps run the applications in an isolated, but lightweight operating environment. It runs the configured pods
It is responsible for pulling down and running containers from Docker images

**3. Kubelet**

Service responsible for conveying information to and from to the control plane service
It gets the configuration of a pod from the API server and ensures that the containers are working efficiently
The kubelet process is responsible for maintaining the work status and the node server

**4. Kubernetes Proxy**

Acts as a load balancer and network proxy to perform service on a single worker node
Manages pods on nodes, volumes, secrets, the creation of new containers, health check-ups, etc.
A proxy service that runs on every node that makes services available to the external hosts.

**10. What is the role of Kube-apiserver?**

This kind validates and provides configuration data for the API objects. It includes pods, services, replication controllers. Also, it provides REST operations and also the frontend of the cluster. This frontend cluster state is shared through which all other component interacts.

**11. What is a node in Kubernetes?**

A node is the smallest fundamental unit of computing hardware. It represents a single machine in a cluster, 
which could be a physical machine in a data center or a virtual machine from a cloud provider. Each machine can substitute any other machine in a Kubernetes cluster. The master in Kubernetes controls the nodes that have 
containers. 

**12. What does the node status contain?**

The main components of a node status are Address, Condition, Capacity, and Info.

**13. What process runs on Kubernetes Master Node?** 
The Kube-api server process runs on the master node and serves to scale the deployment of more instances.

