---
layout: post
title: About me
---
**2024-06-04**
**Day one at coredge**
Hi i am Hazique i have just joined at coredge as linux admin!
on first day i met with Akansha who introduced me about the company and i visited the company and i met with my linux team
member they are very amazing and very humbled  and i feel very happy to see them and
I have learned some basics about the Github like how to make repository and how to pull 
and push to the srever and how to make changes in the github repo,etc.

---
layout: post
title: **Day 2 At Coredge as a linux admin trainee**
**date: 2024-6-4**
---
It's day two as a Linux Admin Trainee at Coredge, feeling good and our tariner sattya gave some
liniux questions what we had to do and they asked me some quetions about linux,ansible,docker,git,aws etc 

**Q1-> What is the difference between Open Source and FOSS ?**
**What is Free Software?**
“Free software” means software that respects users’ freedom and community. Roughly, it means that the users have the freedom to run, copy, distribute, study, change, and improve the software. The term “free software” is sometimes misunderstood—it has nothing to do with price. It is about freedom. 

**Advantages of Free Software**

Cost: Free software is typically free to use, modify, and distribute.
Freedom: Free software is often accompanied by a set of ethical principles that promote users’ freedom to use, study, modify, and share the software.
Collaboration: Free software often encourages collaboration among developers and users, leading to faster development and better quality software.
Transparency: Free software is often developed in a transparent way, with the source code and development process available for public scrutiny.
Flexibility: Free software can be used on a wide range of platforms and devices.

**What is Open Source Software?**

 Open Source Software is something that you can modify as per your needs, and share with others without any licensing violation burden. When we say Open Source, the source code of the software is available publicly with Open Source licenses like GNU (GPL) which allows you to edit the source code and distribute it. Read these licenses and you will realize that these licenses are created to help us.

Coined by the development environments around software produced by open collaboration of software developers on the internet.
Later specified by the Open Source Initiative (OSI).
It does not explicitly state ethical values, besides those directly associated with software development.

**Advantages of Open Source Software**

Cost: Open source software is typically free to use, modify and distribute.
Customization: The source code of open source software is available to everyone, allowing users to modify and customize it to suit their needs.
Community support: Open source software often has a large community of developers and users who contribute to its development and provide support.
Transparency: The source code of open source software is open for everyone to see, making it easier to identify and fix bugs and vulnerabilities.
Flexibility: Open source software can be used on a wide range of platforms and devices.

**Disadvantages of Source Software**

Support: While open source software does have a large community of developers and users, it may not always have the same level of professional support as commercial software.
Compatibility: Open source software may not always be compatible with other software applications and hardware devices.
Security: Because the source code of open source software is available to everyone, it may be easier for malicious actors to identify and exploit vulnerabilities.
Complexity: Open source software can be more complex and difficult to use than commercial software, especially for non-technical users.
Documentation: Open source software may not always have the same level of documentation and user guides as commercial software.

**Day 3 at coredge**
**2024-06-05 Going to learn about git**
**what is git?**
---
 - Git is a free, open source distributed version control system tool designed to handle everything from small to very large
 - projects with speed and efficiency. It was created by Linus Torvalds in 2005 to develop Linux Kernel. Git has the functionality
 - performance, security and flexibility that most teams and individual developers need.
 - Git is a Distributed Version Control tool that supports distributed non-linear workflows by providing data assurance for 
 - quality software.
---

**What is Git– Why Git Came Into Existence?**
 **Version Control** is the management of changes to documents, computer programs, large websites and other collection of information.
---   
 - Version control is a system that records changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can recall specific versions later
 - There are two types of VCS
---

**Centralized Version Control System (CVCS)**
**Distributed Version Control System (DVCS)**
 **Centralized VCS**
---   
 - Centralized version control system (CVCS) uses a central server to store all files and enables team collaboration. It works on single repository to which users can directly access a central server.
--- 

**Disadvantage of CVCS**
---
 - It is not locally available; meaning you always need to be connected to a network to perform any action.
 - Since everything is centralized, in any case of the central server getting crashed or corrupted will result in losing the
 -   entire data of the project
---
**Distributed VCS**
--- 
 - These systems do not necessarily rely on a central server to store all the versions of a project file.
 - In Distributed VCS, every contributor has a local copy or “clone” of the main repository i.e. everyone maintains a local
 - repository of their own which contains all the files and metadata present in the main repository.
---
**Advantages of Distributed VCS**
---    
 - Committing new change-sets can be done locally without manipulating the data on the main repository. Once you
 - have a group of change-sets ready, you can push them all at once.
 - If the central server gets crashed at any point of time, the lost data can be easily recovered from any one of the
 - contributor’s local repositories.
---
**Git Useful Command**
---      
 - **git add**-> . If a file is in the staging areabut not committed, it shows with git status. Or if there are no changes it’ll return nothing to commit      - working directory clean
 - **git commit**->  It’s best practice to include a message with each commit explaining the changes made in a commit. Adding a commit message helps to         find a particular change or understanding the changes
 - **git status**-> This command returns the current state of the repository. git status will return the current working branch. If a file is in the             staging area, but not committed, it shows with git status. Or, if there are no changes it’ll return nothing to commit, working directory clean
 - **git config**-> 
 
 - **git branch**-> To determine what branch the local repository is on, add a new branch, or delete a branch.
 
 - **git checkout**-> To start working in a different branch, use git checkout to switch branches
 
 - **git merge**-> Integrate branches together. git merge combines the changes from one branch to another branch. For example, merge the changes made in a      staging branch into the stable branch
 
 - **git clone**-> use git clone to copy and download the repository to a local system.
 
 - **git pull**->
 
 - **git push**->

---
**Day 3 at coredge**
 - we get some video by sattya in this video we have covered lots of topic and
 - command and their use case it was very helpful for us..
**Command and use case**
 - **ls** - listing the content in a directory.
 - **cp** - copying a file from one location to another.
 - **mv** - moving a file from one location to another and we can also used to rename a file by using the mv command.
 - **mkdir** - used for making a directory
 - **rmdir** - used for deleting an empty directory.
 - **date** - used to print the current date
 - **echo** - used for printing the string as a output which is passed to it.
 - **which** - used for showing the path of a command.
 - **cd** - used to change the directory.
 - **man** - used for reading the manual of a command.
 - **cat** - used for printing the content inside a file.
 - **pwd** - the command used for print working directory like you can check the path of working directory
 - **touch** - the command used for creating empty file after that you can edit.
 - **head** - the command used for display begening of a file.
 - **tail** - the command used for display end of a file.
 
