---
layout:
title: Day 3 At Coredge as a Linux Admin
date: 2024-6-6
---

**Day 3 at coredge**
we get some video by sattya in this video we have covered lots of topic and
command and their use case it was very helpful for us..
 
**Command and use case**
 
**ls** - listing the content in a directory.
**cp** - copying a file from one location to another.
**mv** - moving a file from one location to another and we can also used to rename a file by using the mv command.
**mkdir** - used for making a directory
**rmdir** - used for deleting an empty directory.
**date** - used to print the current date
**echo** - used for printing the string as a output which is passed to it.
**which** - used for showing the path of a command.
**cd** - used to change the directory.
**man** - used for reading the manual of a command.
**cat** - used for printing the content inside a file.
**pwd** - the command used for print working directory like you can check the path of working directory
**touch** - the command used for creating empty file after that you can edit.
**head** - the command used for display begening of a file.
**tail** - the command used for display end of a file.
                                                                                
**What is shell**
A user interface for accessing an operating system's services. Examples include Bash 
(Bourne Again Shell) on Unix and Linux systems, and Command Prompt or PowerShell 
on Windows. It allows users to execute commands,run scripts, and manage system processes.
  
**What is shell scripting**
Writing scripts using a shell to automate tasks. Shell scripts are sequences of commands
written in a shell's scripting language.

**What i have learned in scripting**
*constant var
*key-value
*var
*strings
*Arrays

