---
 layout: post
 title: KUBERNETES
 date: 2024-7-9
---
**2024-7-9 AS A LINUX ADMIN**

**1. What is Minikube?**

With the help of Minikube, users can Kubernetes locally. This process lets the user run a single-node Kubernetescluster on your personal computer, including Windows, macOS, and Linus PCs. With this, users can try out Kubernetes also for daily development work.

**2. What is a Namespace in Kubernetes?**

Namespaces are used for dividing cluster resources between multiple users. They are meant for environments wherethere are many users spread across projects or teams and provide a scope of resources.

**3. Name the initial namespaces from which Kubernetes starts?**

Default
Kube – system
Kube – public

**4. What is the Kubernetes controller manager?**
The controller manager is a daemon that is used for embedding core control loops, garbage collection, and 
Namespace creation. It enables the running of multiple processes on the master node even though they are 
compiled to run as a single process.

**5. What are the types of controller managers?**

The primary controller managers that can run on the master node are the endpoints controller, service accounts 
controller, namespace controller, node controller, token controller, and replication controller.

**6. What is etcd?**

Kubernetes uses etcd as a distributed key-value store for all of its data, including metadata and configuration data, and allows nodes in Kubernetes clusters to read and write data. Although etcd was purposely built for CoreOS, it also works on a variety of operating systems (e.g., Linux, BSB, and OS X) because it is open-source. Etcdrepresents the state of a cluster at a specific moment in time and is a canonical hub for state management and 
cluster coordination of a Kubernetes cluster.


**7. What are the different services within Kubernetes?**

Different types of Kubernetes services include: 

Cluster IP service
Node Port service
External Name Creation service and 
Load Balancer service


**8. What is Kubelet?**

The kubelet is a service agent that controls and maintains a set of pods by watching for pod specs through the 
Kubernetes API server. It preserves the pod lifecycle by ensuring that a given set of containers are all runningas they should. The kubelet runs on each node and enables the communication between the master and slave nodes.

**9. What is Kubectl?**

Kubectl is a CLI (command-line interface) that is used to run commands against Kubernetes clusters. As such, it controls the Kubernetes cluster manager through different create and manage commands on the Kubernetes component

**10. What is ClusterIP?**

The ClusterIP is the default Kubernetes service that provides a service inside a cluster (with no external 
access) that other apps inside your cluster can access. 


**11. What is the LoadBalancer in Kubernetes?**

The LoadBalancer service is used to expose services to the internet. A Network load balancer, for example, 
creates a single IP address that forwards all traffic to your service. 
